---
layout: post

title: FitStory
subtitle: "A Start To A Long Journey"
cover_image: cover.jpg

excerpt: "After many sleepless nights and coffee fueled hazes, I'm pleased to announce the launch of FitStory's beta signup website!"

author:
  name: Landon Morin
  twitter: Landon_Morin
  bio: Owner, Dude-veloper, and Fitness Enthusiast
  image: land1.png
---

Today I'm pleased to announce Fitstory, an app that lets **YOU** be in control of your fitness while also empowering you to help others with theirs.

####Background

One of the biggest issues I've ever ran into while working out, was the endless struggle of entering data into my phone. In most cases, it proved to be easier just to use a pen and paper. As I began to advance in the exercises, it became apparent that my current method of data entry just wouldn't cut it anymore. It felt tedious and restrictive. **Quite frankly, it SUCKED.**

A major eye opener moment happened when I recently attempted and failed to get into body weight fitness. Essentially, bodyweight fitness involves the use of progression based exercises to lower or increase the difficulty of exercise, without the use of free weights.

I found myself looking up the progressions online, before and during a workout. It significantly affected my efficiency while exercising, and ultimately caused me to become unmotivated. The worst part was my data records were everywhere. I couldn't tell how effectively I was making progress and found myself comparing my results to others online; which just compounded the issues. 

####Lessons Learned

Data is important. Having the ability to look back and see where I struggled and how I overcame it could have proven to be invaluable later on. Not only that, but let's say a friend down the road likes what I'm doing and would like to begin for themselves, having all that data would be a great way to guide them along their way.

Every person is different. The problem being, I was relied on information I found online to base my workouts on. I would select the workouts based purely on the results of an individual, usually in the form of before and after progress pictures. This turned out to be ineffective as I spent too much time comparing myself to another person, and ignored important questions like "Where did they start?", "What pitfalls did they go through?", "Is their path the right path for me?", etc.


####How FitStory Plans To Fix This

The goal is to create a product that makes stat tracking easy, without being overbearing on the user's fitness experience, and to make fitness fun. Whether you want to create progress posts with selfies after each workout, or create competitions with your friends, FitStory will provide the flexibility needed to make fitness fun for **YOU**.

####Where We Go From Here

In the coming months, I'll begin rolling out beta access to users whom sign up on [**FitStory's**](http://FitStory.io) website. If you are one of the lucky people selected, you'll be given additional invites to hand out to your friends to complete the FitStory experience. Want a higher chance of getting into the beta? Tell your friends to [**register**](http://FitStory.io) and get them to invite you to the beta if they get in!


I'm excited to be actively developing this app and to hopefully help many people achieve their fitness goals through this tool! 